# sleep_efficiency

Snoozeless, a sleep efficiency dashboard, is a data visualization tool built using the Plotly Dash library. The dashboard is designed to help individuals track and analyze their sleep patterns to improve their sleep quality. The dashboard displays relationships between key sleep metrics such as sleep duration and sleep efficiency and also includes several charts to display how different variables impact sleep. Many charts are included, from ones as intuitive as a scatter plot and histogram to ones more profound as a density contour plot and radar graph. The user can interact with the dashboard to change the variables and values shown on the plots through dropdown menus and sliders to help them discover sleep data that interests them. From there, users can identify trends and patterns in people’s sleep behavior. For this project, a user-friendly dashboard was created for users of any age to interact with and gain more information concerning factors that impact sleep and see what they can do to improve their sleep. A machine-learning model was also implemented to allow users to input factors like their bedtime, sleep duration, caffeine consumption, and exercise frequency and afterward see stats about their sleep quality. It was hypothesized that sleeping longer, drinking less caffeine and alcohol, not smoking, and exercising more would help one maximize their sleep quality. Even though these findings were supported, the dashboard presented other interesting findings such as how gender seems to play a minimal direct role in one’s sleep quality and that age, awakening frequency, and alcohol consumption majorly affect sleep quality overall.
